Silicon photonics (SiPh) refers
to the generation, manipulation,
guiding and using light in
Photonic Integrated Circuits (PICs).
These circuits are processed on the surface of
silicon-on-insulator (SOI) wafers in a similar way -
as microelectronic circuits are fabricated
for processing electrical signals.
PICs are like electronic circuits, but propagating
optical instead of electrical signals.
The main application areas for Si photonics are:
Optical communication, and computing for ICT.
Military & Aerospace
Autonomous systems and LIDARs
Manufacturing and Industry 4.0
Health care and medical imaging
Conventional thin-SOI waveguides have strong
polarization and wavelength dependency.
Only Thick-SOI waveguides offer ultra-broad
bandwidth and polarization independency.
The benefits of VTT’s Thick-SOI technology are:
low loss, dense integration, ultra-wide bandwidth,
small polarization dependency and
insensitivity to fabrication variations.